# Test Generator #
This project takes a state space generated by the _TLC_ model checker of an _Erla+_ specification and
produces sequences of messages according to their sending order.
These sequences serve as tests for the specification's (generated) implementation, simulating message sending order and thus, simulating the state space.


### Usage ##
The test generator recognizes the following command-line arguments:

`-graph <myDotFile>.dot`: this argument is mandatory and should be used to specify the name of the input _.dot_ ([_graphviz_](https://graphviz.org)) file.
_Graphviz_ file output can be configured in the _TLA+ Toolbox_ or as a command-line parameter to the _TLC_ model checker (`-dump dot`).

*Note*: we identified an issue in the library the test generator uses to parse graphviz files ([JGraphT](https://jgrapht.org) 1.5.2) when node labels contain the new-line character. To work around any problems, replace each occurrence of '\n' with another symbol that is unlikely to appear in a label (e.g. '$').

### Limitations ##
Note that this project has not been tested with large _.dot_ files and is probably not particularly efficient.
Our project uses an edge-coverage guided graph-traversal strategy described by Wang et al. [1], which, however,
produces a large amount of test cases. A possible optimization would be employing a strategy to remove or merge commutative test cases, which would reduce
the amount of non-representative tests in the output.

### Citations ###
[1] _Wang, Dong, et al._ **Model checking guided testing for distributed systems**. Proceedings of the Eighteenth European Conference on Computer Systems. 2023.